README.md, before:

# FACT-UVA: Man is to Programmer as Woman is to Homemaker?

## IMPORTANT !!!

Repo moved from https://github.com/fricer/FACT-UVA to https://github.com/YovchevIvan/FACT-UVA in order to be able to add more than 4 collaborators

## Links

Debiaswe: https://github.com/tolga-b/debiaswe
Lipstick: https://github.com/gonenhila/gender_bias_lipstick

### How to get the GoogleNews word2vec embeddings:
Download it directly from the official [website](https://code.google.com/archive/p/word2vec/) or clone [this github repo](https://github.com/mmihaltz/word2vec-GoogleNews-vectors). Place the downloaded **.bin** file in the embeddings folder.

### How to get the Glove embeddings:
Go to the official [website](https://nlp.stanford.edu/projects/glove/). Download **glove.840B.300d.zip**. Place the downloaded **.txt** file in the embeddings folder.

### To run debias on word2vec embeddings do:
```
python3 main.py
```
where __--em_limit__ argument can be used to limit the number of words being loaded

### To run debias on glove embeddings do:

If running for the first time do:
```
./gloveToW2V.sh ../embeddings/glove.840B.300d.txt ../embeddings/glove.formatted.txt
```

then to run do:

```
python3 main.py --bin=False --i_em=../embeddings/glove.formatted.txt
```
where __--em_limit__ argument can be used to limit the number of words being loaded

### To run bench-marking tests:

First install the benchmarking tools provided by [this github repository](https://github.com/kudkudak/word-embeddings-benchmarks). To do so move to the directory `FACT-UVA/code/benchmarks` and run 

```
python3 setup.py install
```

Further instruction regarding the package installation can be found in `FACT-UVA/code/benchmarks/README.rst`. Once this is done, the testing script can be run with the following command from the directory `FACT-UVA/code/benchmarks/scripts`:

```
python3 evaluate_on_all.py -f <embeddings binary file>
```

The latter is the name of the output dumped by the script `FACT-UVA/code/main.py` after debiasing given embeddings.

Commit message:

added use of analogies.py to README

README.md, after:

# FACT-UVA: Man is to Programmer as Woman is to Homemaker?

## IMPORTANT !!!

Repo moved from https://github.com/fricer/FACT-UVA to https://github.com/YovchevIvan/FACT-UVA in order to be able to add more than 4 collaborators

## Links

Debiaswe: https://github.com/tolga-b/debiaswe
Lipstick: https://github.com/gonenhila/gender_bias_lipstick

### How to get the GoogleNews word2vec embeddings:
Download it directly from the official [website](https://code.google.com/archive/p/word2vec/) or clone [this github repo](https://github.com/mmihaltz/word2vec-GoogleNews-vectors). Place the downloaded **.bin** file in the embeddings folder.

### How to get the Glove embeddings:
Go to the official [website](https://nlp.stanford.edu/projects/glove/). Download **glove.840B.300d.zip**. Place the downloaded **.txt** file in the embeddings folder.

### To run debias on word2vec embeddings do:
```
python3 main.py
```
where __--em_limit__ argument can be used to limit the number of words being loaded

### To run debias on glove embeddings do:

If running for the first time do:
```
./gloveToW2V.sh ../embeddings/glove.840B.300d.txt ../embeddings/glove.formatted.txt
```

then to run do:

```
python3 main.py --bin=False --i_em=../embeddings/glove.formatted.txt
```
where __--em_limit__ argument can be used to limit the number of words being loaded

### To run analogy generator

Run the script in `FACT-UVA/code/analogies.py` as follows

```
python3 analogies.py --i_em=<path to embeggindg gile> --complete x-y-z
```

Where `x`, `y`, and `z` are words. The script will then find a word `w` such that `x:y=z:w`. Alternatively the script can be run as follows:

```
python3 analogies.py --i_em=<path to embeggindg gile> --pair_seed x-y
```

Where `x` and `y` are again words. The script will then find a pair `(z,w)` such that `x:y=z:w`.

Additional arguments can be given such as `--em_limit` followed by the maximum number of embeddings to be loaded, and `--bin`, followed by a boolean value, to specify weather or not the loaded embeddings file is binary or not (txt).

### To run bench-marking tests:

First install the benchmarking tools provided by [this github repository](https://github.com/kudkudak/word-embeddings-benchmarks). To do so move to the directory `FACT-UVA/code/benchmarks` and run 

```
python3 setup.py install
```

Further instruction regarding the package installation can be found in `FACT-UVA/code/benchmarks/README.rst`. Once this is done, the testing script can be run with the following command from the directory `FACT-UVA/code/benchmarks/scripts`:

```
python3 evaluate_on_all.py -f <embeddings binary file>
```

The latter is the name of the output dumped by the script `FACT-UVA/code/main.py` after debiasing given embeddings.
